Accelerate big models (#526)
huggingface/blog: accelerate-big-models.md

---
title: "How 🤗 Accelerate runs very large models"
thumbnail: /blog/assets/20_accelerate_library/accelerate_diff.png
---

<h1>
    How 🤗 Accelerate runs very large models
</h1>

<div class="blog-metadata">
    <small>Published September 19, 2022.</small>
    <a target="_blank" class="btn no-underline text-sm mb-5 font-sans" href="https://github.com/huggingface/blog/blob/main/accelerate-big-models.md">
        Update on GitHub
    </a>
</div>

<div class="author-card">
    <a href="/sgugger">
        <img class="avatar avatar-user" src="https://aeiljuispo.cloudimg.io/v7/https://s3.amazonaws.com/moonup/production/uploads/1593126474392-5ef50182b71947201082a4e5.jpeg?w=200&h=200&f=face" title="Gravatar">
        <div class="bfc">
            <code>sgugger</code>
            <span class="fullname">Sylvain Gugger</span>
        </div>
    </a>
</div>

## Load and run large models

> Meta AI and BigScience recently open-sourced very large language models. You can use them even if you don't own a supercomputer by just running the following code:

Reviewer: I'd personally err towards having a slightly longer introduction before diving into the code; something about models becoming larger and larger, about consumer hardware not being enough to run them out of the box, and about tools like accelerate making it possible to try even the largest models without access to a cluster.

Reviewer: I'd also specify that what lies below is focused on inference, as "runs" can mean many things

```python
import torch
from transformers import pipeline

# This works on Colab. Pick a larger checkpoint if you have time to wait and enough disk space!
checkpoint = "facebook/opt-2.7b"
generator = pipeline("text-generation", model=checkpoint, device_map="auto", torch_dtype=torch.float16)

> generator("More and more large language models are opensourced so Hugging Face has")

Reviewer: I'd add a line return for readability

Reviewer: ```suggestion

# Perform inference
generator("More and more large language models are opensourced so Hugging Face has")
```

```

We'll explain what each of those arguments does in a moment, but first just consider the traditional model loading pipeline in PyTorch: it usually consists of:

1. Create the model
2. Load in memory its weights (in an object usually called `state_dict`)
3. Load those weights in the created model
4. Move the model on the device for inference

While that has worked pretty well in the past years, very large models make this approach challenging. Here the model picked has 2.7 billion parameters. In the default precision, it means that just step 1 (creating the model) will take roughly 10.8GB in RAM (1 parameter in float32 takes 4 bytes in memory). This is enough to fill almost all the RAM available in Colab.

> Then step 2 will load in memory a second copy of the model (so another 10.8GB in RAM in default precision) which will get you out of RAM on Colab for the 2.7B model. If you were trying to load BLOOM or OPT-176B, like this, you would need 1.4 **terabytes** of CPU RAM. That is a bit excessive! And all of this to just move the model on one (or several) GPU(s) at step 4.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Then step 2 will load in memory a second copy of the model (so another 10.8GB in RAM in default precision) which will get you out of RAM on Colab for the 2.7B model. If you were trying to load the largest models, for example BLOOM or OPT-176B (which both have 176 billion parameters), like this, you would need 1.4 **terabytes** of CPU RAM. That is a bit excessive! And all of this to just move the model on one (or several) GPU(s) at step 4.
```

> Clearly we need something smarter. In this blog post, we'll explain how Accelerate leverages PyTorch features to load and run inference with very large models, even if they don't fit in RAM or one GPU. In a nutshell, it changes the process above like this:

Author: Not at this stage IMO.

1. Create an empty (e.g. without weights) model
2. Decide where each layer is going to go (when multiple devices are available)
3. Load in memory parts of its weights
4. Load those weights in the empty model
5. Move the weights on the device for inference

> 6. Repeat from step 3 for the next weights until all the weights are loaded

Author: They stay there (device might be GPU/CPU/disk)

```python
import torch

large_tensor = torch.randn(100000, 100000, device="meta")
```

If you try to display this tensor, here is what PyTorch will print:

```
tensor(..., device='meta', size=(100000, 100000))
```

As we said before, there is no data associated with this tensor, just a shape.

You can instantiate a model directly on the meta device:

```python
large_model = torch.nn.Linear(100000, 100000, device="meta")
```

But for an existing model, this syntax would require you to rewrite all your modeling code so that each submodule accepts and passes along a `device` keyword argument. Since it was impractical for the 150 models of the Transformers library, we developed a context manager that will instantiate an empty model for you. Here is how you can instantiate an empty version of BLOOM:

```python
from accelerate import init_empty_weights
from transformers import AutoConfig, AutoModelForCausalLM

config = AutoConfig.from_pretrained("bigscience/bloom")
with init_empty_weights():
    model = AutoModelForCausalLM.from_config(config)
```

> This works on any model, but will leave you a shell you can't use directly: some operations are implemented for the meta device, but not all yet. Here for instance, you can use the `large_model` defined above with an input, but not the BLOOM model. Even when using it, the output will be a tensor of the meta device, so you will get the shape of the result, but nothing more.

Author: rephrased differently

```python
from accelerate import infer_auto_device_map, init_empty_weights
from transformers import AutoConfig, AutoModelForSeq2SeqLM

config = AutoConfig.from_pretrained("bigscience/T0pp")
with init_empty_weights():
    model = AutoModelForSeq2SeqLM.from_config(config)

device_map = infer_auto_device_map(model)
```

This will return a dictionary mapping modules or weights to a device. On a machine with one Titan RTX for instance, we get the following:

```python out
{'shared': 0,
 'decoder.embed_tokens': 0,
 'encoder': 0,
 'decoder.block.0': 0,
 'decoder.block.1': 0,
 'decoder.block.2': 0,
 'decoder.block.3': 0,
 'decoder.block.4.layer.0': 0,
 'decoder.block.4.layer.1.EncDecAttention.q': 0,
 'decoder.block.4.layer.1.EncDecAttention.k': 0,
 'decoder.block.4.layer.1.EncDecAttention.v': 0,
 'decoder.block.4.layer.1.EncDecAttention.o': 'cpu',
 'decoder.block.4.layer.1.layer_norm': 'cpu',
 'decoder.block.4.layer.1.dropout': 'cpu',
 'decoder.block.4.layer.2': 'cpu',
 'decoder.block.5': 'cpu',
 ...
```

> Accelerate evaluated that the shared layer, the encoder and the decoder up until the 4th block could all fit on GPU 0, then part of the 4th block needs to be on the CPU, as well as the following weights.

Author: I don't think we care very much ;-p

We call the checkpoints saved in several files like BLOOM *sharded checkpoints*, and we have standardized their format as such: one file (called `pytorch_model.bin.index.json`) contains some metadata and a map parameter name to file name, indicating where to find each weight, then the other files are standard PyTorch state dicts, they just contain a part of the model instead of the whole one. You can have a look at the content of the index file [here](https://huggingface.co/bigscience/bloom/blob/main/pytorch_model.bin.index.json).

> To load such a sharded checkpoint into a model, we just need to loop over the various shards. Accelerate provides a function called `load_checkpoint_in_model` that will do this for you if you have cloned one of the repos of the Hub, or you can directly use the `from_pretrained` method of Transformers, which will handle the downloading and caching for you.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
To load such a sharded checkpoint into a model, we just need to loop over the various shards. Accelerate provides a function called `load_checkpoint_in_model` that will do this for you if you have cloned one of the repos of the Hub, or you can directly use the `from_pretrained` method of Transformers, which will handle the downloading and caching for you:
```

```python
from transformers import AutoModelForCausalLM

checkpoint = "facebook/opt-2.7b"
model = AutoModelForCausalLM.from_pretrained(checkpoint, device_map="auto")
```

> If the device map computed automatically requires some weights to be offloaded on disk because you don't have enough GPU and CPU RAM, you will get an error indicating you need to pass an folder where the weights that should be stored on disk will be offloaded.

Reviewer 2: Perhaps include a quick example of the error message?

```python
from transformers import AutoModelForCausalLM

checkpoint = "facebook/opt-2.7b"

> model = AutoModelForCausalLM.from_pretrained(checkpoint, device_map="auto", offloag_folder="offload")

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
model = AutoModelForCausalLM.from_pretrained(checkpoint, device_map="auto", offload_folder="offload")
```

```

> Note that if you are trying to load a very large model that require some disk offload on top of CPU offload, you might get out of RAM when the last shards of the checkpoint are loaded, since there is the part of the model staying on CPU taking space. If that is the case, use the option `offload_state_dict=True` to temporarily offload the part of the model staying on CPU while the weights are all loaded, and reload it in RAM once all the weights have been processed

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Note that if you are trying to load a very large model that require some disk offload on top of CPU offload, you might run out of RAM when the last shards of the checkpoint are loaded, since there is the part of the model staying on CPU taking space. If that is the case, use the option `offload_state_dict=True` to temporarily offload the part of the model staying on CPU while the weights are all loaded, and reload it in RAM once all the weights have been processed
```

```python
from transformers import AutoModelForCausalLM

checkpoint = "facebook/opt-11b"
model = AutoModelForCausalLM.from_pretrained(
    checkpoint, device_map="auto", offload_folder="offload", offload_state_dict = True
)
```

## Running a model split on several devices

> One last part we haven't touched is how Accelerate enables your model to run with its weight spread across several GPUs, CPU RAM and the disk folder. This is done very simply, using hooks. PyTorch provides an API to add functions executed just before each forward called [hooks](https://pytorch.org/docs/stable/generated/torch.nn.Module.html#torch.nn.Module.register_forward_hook).

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
One last part we haven't touched is how Accelerate enables your model to run with its weight spread across several GPUs, CPU RAM, and the disk folder. This is done very simply using hooks. 

> [hooks](https://pytorch.org/docs/stable/generated/torch.nn.Module.html#torch.nn.Module.register_forward_hook) are a PyTorch API that adds functions executed just before each forward called 
```

We couldn't use this directly since they only support models with regular arguments and no keyword arguments in their forward pass, but we took the same idea. Once the model is loaded, the `dispatch_model` function will add hooks to every module and submodule that are executed before and after each forward pass. They will:
- make sure all the inputs of the module are on the same device as the weights;
- if the weights have been offloaded to the CPU, move them to GPU 0 before the forward pass and back to the CPU just after;
- if the weights have been offloaded to disk, load them in RAM then on the GPU 0 before the forward pass and free this memory just after.

The whole process is summarized in the following video:

<iframe width="560" height="315" src="https://www.youtube.com/embed/MWCSGj9jEAo" title="YouTube video player" frameborder="0" allow="accelerometer; autoplay; clipboard-write; encrypted-media; gyroscope; picture-in-picture" allowfullscreen></iframe>

> This way, your model can be loaded and run even if you don't have enough GPU RAM and CPU RAM. The only thing you need is disk space (and lots of patience!) While this solution is pretty naive if you have multiple GPUs (there is no clever pipeline parallelism involved, just using the GPUs sequentially) it still yield [pretty decent results for BLOOM](https://huggingface.co/blog/bloom-inference-pytorch-scripts). And it allows you to run the model on smaller setups (albeit more slowly).

Reviewer 2: Towards the end perhaps add links to the Accelerate docs and PyTorch docs over the relevant areas?

---
title: "How 🤗 Accelerate runs very large models"
thumbnail: /blog/assets/20_accelerate_library/accelerate_diff.png
---

<h1>

>     How 🤗 Accelerate runs very large models

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
    How 🤗 Accelerate runs very large models thanks to PyTorch
```
